So, here's what I wanna do,
I'm actually gonna use these serverless
functions in a really rudimentary way.
I want to fake authentication.
And the reason I wanna do that is because
the next thing that we're gonna learn is
how to actually do
password protected pages.
But so,
to do that,we're gonna use cookies and
cookies are a very cool, kind of
underused especially working in the web.
I feel like a lot of us talked ourselves
out of using cookies because they were
hard and we didn't have servers available,
so we just throw stuff in local storage or
things like that.
It's not a great idea.
Why not use a cookie?
Cookies are surprisingly
straightforward to use.
Especially with serverless functions,
they are really straightforward to use.
And they give us a lot of security and
power.
You can restrict them to HTTP only.
You can restrict them to the same site.
There's a lot of extra cool things that
you can do that local storage doesn't
provide.
Let's go ahead and build ourselves.
I'm just gonna rename this one,
we don't need a hello function.
So I'm gonna call one login.
And in our login function,
we are not gonna use the request object.
So, to get it to not complain
that I have an unused variable,
I'm gonna lead with this underscore which
says yes, I know I'm not using that.
Then I'm going to set a header and
the header that I wanna set is Set-Cookie.
And to set a cookie, you give it a name.
So, we'll give this a unique name.
We'll call it frontend-masters-auth,
then you give it a value.
We're gonna mark it as true.
I also wanna set the path that it's
valid for which is the root path.
So, we're gonna set our header.
It's going to set a cookie called
frontend-masters-auth=true.
And it's available to the whole site.
We could sub domain it if we wanted to.
Then once I've got that,
I'm just gonna send back some JSON,
and it's gonna be a status of ok.
So, this is a very simple
function that I've just written.
But what it's gonna do is when I come out
here, if I look in my application, and
I look in my cookies, you can see there's
no cookies on this local host right now.
But when I go to log in,
it is now set a cookie for me, right?
So, this cookie is now set and I can use
that cookie elsewhere in my site as a way
of saying that somebody
has done something.
And I'm gonna use this to fake auth, but
you could also use this
to personalize content.
Here's a really cool
approach that I've seen.
My friend, Joel, does this,
where when you sign up to a newsletter,
they keep a cookie that
says that you signed up and
then they don't show you
their opt in anymore.
Because you've already opted in,
you're part of their newsletter list.
So they can actually show you something
different, like more articles to read or
a download that you get access
to because you're opted in.
There's all these cool little
personal touches that you can add and
it doesn't take a lot, right?
All you have to do is send
this back on the way back.
So once we submit this, hey,
we're done, we did it, we got it.
That's great.
And I didn't have to
learn anything special.
I didn't have to go figure
out how servers work,
I'm just able to do
the serverless function.
So next, let's make another one of these.
But this on is gonna be a duplicate and
I want it to be a log out.
So, how do we unset a cookie?
And the way that you unset a cookie is
you, first we'll just negate the value.
So even if it doesn't work,
we'll knock that value to false so
that it would still fail.
And then, we set an expires in the past.
There's a specific RFC format
that you have to use for
dates in cookies,
which is a little bit weird.
So, it's Thursday, and
then the dates of 01 Jan,
and then any year in the past is fine.
And so we'll set 1970 and then a time in
this format, and we'll set it to GMT.
And basically what we're saying is,
this cookie should be gone.
Get rid of it.
And just in case you don't get rid of it,
also set it to false so
if there's any flicker in the middle
where it's still available,
the code should still fail
if it's set to false.
So, we can do that.
And now if we pull open our application
again and we're in login, so
there's our cookie.
Let's go to log out.
Cookies gone, right?
Let's log in again.
And now if I move around to other parts
of the site, let's go to the books page,
that cookie's still there,
you see we can use that wherever we want.
And if I go to log out, oops, API log out,
I mean, Cookie's gone.
Now if I go back to books,
there's no cookie there anymore, right?
So, we've given ourselves the ability
to set and remove a cookie.
And then the last thing that
I wanna do is I want to
check whether or
not that we are logged in.
So let's add one more
serverless function and
this one is going to check auth status,
so we'll call this one check-auth.js.
And this one is going to export
default function handler and
that's gonna take a request and
a response.
And that will check if logged in.
And the way we're gonna do this is we're
gonna use the Boolean constructor to,
or we'll call Boolean as a function
which will force whatever's
inside of it to be a Boolean of true or
false.
Then, we're gonna check if the req.cookies
exist at all because they might not.
And if they do, then we'll do
req.cookies and we're gonna check for
frontend-masters-auth, which
will give us back that value.
And that is gonna tell us whether or
not we're logged in.
So then what I can do is res.json and
just send that value back.
So, let's just send back logged in.
Okay, so,
currently we don't have a cookie.
So I would expect that if we go to
check-auth, it should say false.
Okay, logged in false.
Let's go log in.
All right, we have the cookie.
Let's go check our auth status again,
we are logged in true, right?
So this is the power of what we're doing.
Let's log out.
Check that auth again.
Login false.
One more time, login,
check-auth, log in true.
I mean this is just kind of mind boggling
to me how straightforward this all
is like,
to build these routes in a server,
it wouldn't necessarily be harder but
it would definitely take longer.
And I think that that's the power of this,
is you can develop at the speed of thought
because you're not slowing down to
write boilerplate or stand up services.
You're able to just like, I have an idea,
I need a server for that.
Okay, let me throw a serverless
function and I can do that thing.
It's a really nice flow.
It's really, really helpful.
But what we could do,
looking at the way that this login works,
the value that we set here
could be like a JSON web token.
It could be some details about
your user that you could then use
to display on the page,
like somebody's username and email.
There are a lot of ways that you
could approach this and it's,
as far as local persisted storage goes,
as long as you're not doing very much.
Cookies are a pretty good
way to keep a session alive.
And I wouldn't put anything you
need to keep keep, their drafts or
something like that but
something that's coming from a database.
I'm going out, I'm checking to see,
all right, does auth zero?
Does this person have an account?
Is it valid?
Is the password correct?
Great, give me back those details.
Throw them in a cookie, now I don't have
to talk to auth zero anymore, right,
until we do a logout or
the expiry of the cookie hits.
It's a nice flow.
It gives you a lot of flexibility.
It keeps things pretty performing,
you can build it fast.